Update to CI jobs page (#4706)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/ci-jobs.md

### Prerequisites
- You have a dbt Cloud account.
- For the [Concurrent CI checks](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration#concurrent-ci-checks) and [Smart cancellation of stale builds](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration#smart-cancellation) features, your dbt Cloud account must be on the [Team or Enterprise plan](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/).

> - You must be connected using dbt Cloud’s native Git integration with [GitHub](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github), [GitLab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops).

Author: previously, this line implied that the user would need to set up the connection first before proceeding with creating a CI job in the UI. 

with this update, will the user still need to set up the connection first?

Reviewer: you technically don't need a repo or a git provider connection to create a CI job, but it will fail as soon as you try to run it. a native git integration is needed to trigger the job on PRs; otherwise, users will see the following message (which is pretty clear IMO)
<img width="1383" alt="Screenshot 2024-01-04 at 11 01 57" src="https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/56835998/5766d581-6bc9-42bd-bfb6-f59af18e2727">

Author: gotcha!

i'm thinking about how we can document a "happy path" here and your extra context is helpful! that message in the UI is a great guardrail for the user ❇️

Reviewer: gotcha. for the "happy path", you would need to connect a repo (either with a native integration or one of the other methods) before running the job. doing so before creating a CI job makes the most sense, but there's nothing stopping you from doing it out of order

Author: 👍 thank you!

can you take a look at my latest update re: this? i think i captured all the bits this time

> - If you're using [GitLab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab), you need a paid or self-hosted account which includes support for GitLab webhooks and [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html). With GitLab Free, merge requests will invoke CI jobs but CI status updates (success or failure of the job) will not be reported back to GitLab. 

Reviewer: this is only applicable to the native GitLab integration

Author: yep, it's saying `if you're using GitLab` . 

or are you saying that we support both "native GitLab integration" and "non-native GitLab integration" and we need to make that distinction in this bullet?

Reviewer: > or are you saying that we support both "native GitLab integration" and "non-native GitLab integration" and we need to make that distinction in this bullet?

yes, exactly! in theory someone could connect a GitLab repo using the `Git Clone` option instead of the native integration. not a huge deal, but i think making this small change will make it more clear
```suggestion
- If you're using a native [GitLab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab) integration, you need a paid or self-hosted account which includes support for GitLab webhooks and [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html). With GitLab Free, merge requests will invoke CI jobs but CI status updates (success or failure of the job) will not be reported back to GitLab. 
```

> - If you previously configured your dbt project by providing a generic git URL that clones using SSH, you must reconfigure the project to connect through dbt Cloud's native integration.

Reviewer: we could either remove this bullet point, or specify that it's only necessary if the user wants full CI benefits that come with the native integrations (like automatic dropping of temporary schemas). since that's already covered [here](https://docs-getdbt-com-git-ly-docs-ci-jobs-dbt-labs.vercel.app/docs/deploy/ci-jobs#trigger-a-ci-job-with-the-api), i'm in favor of dropping it. what do you think?

Author: i'm a little hesitant to drop this line since iirc it came from an faq. lemme reach out to support and see if they have more user context about this

Author: via git blame, i found the original faq/troubleshooting content where this line came from: 

![Screenshot 2024-01-04 at 5 00 42 PM](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/107218380/6851f646-5258-4bf1-ab43-12500373846e)

if this ^ isn't the case anymore, i'm good with removing the bullet as you suggested.

Author: oh, the original content for this is still in the Troubleshooting section. it's the second item on the list from [here](https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/deploy/ci-jobs#troubleshooting). 

it tells people to reconnect via a native integration to `enable dbt Cloud CI` . if this isn't the case anymore, i'm good with removing the bullet as you suggested. 

as a follow-up, we might want to remove it from the Troubleshooting section as well. 

but, if this is still true, i would lean towards keeping it in for git url people who want to use CI.

Reviewer: gotcha, this makes sense! since CI & most of its benefits are available to non-native integrations as well now, this isn't accurate anymore (a native integration is not _not_ required to enable dbt Cloud CI). i am in favor of removing both the bullet point & the section from troubleshooting, since they are a little bit misleading now

Author: got it! thanks for working through this with me. will remove those pieces

>    - If you're using a native [GitLab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab) integration, you need a paid or self-hosted account which includes support for GitLab webhooks and [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html). With GitLab Free, merge requests will invoke CI jobs but CI status updates (success or failure of the job) will not be reported back to GitLab. 

Reviewer 2: sugg active voice
```suggestion
   - If you're using a native [GitLab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab) integration, you need a paid or self-hosted account that includes support for GitLab webhooks and [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html). If you're using GitLab Free, merge requests will trigger CI jobs but CI job status updates (success or failure of the job) will not be reported back to GitLab.
```

Author: thanks for flagging! i think future tense is ok here

dbt Labs recommends that you create your CI job in a dedicated dbt Cloud [deployment environment](/docs/deploy/deploy-environments#create-a-deployment-environment) that's connected to a staging database. Having a separate environment dedicated for CI will provide better isolation between your temporary CI schema builds and your production data builds. Additionally, sometimes teams need their CI jobs to be triggered when a PR is made to a branch other than main. If your team maintains a staging branch as part of your release process, having a separate environment will allow you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings) and, accordingly, the CI job in that dedicated environment will be triggered only when PRs are made to the specified custom branch. To learn more, refer to [Get started with CI tests](/guides/set-up-ci).

### Prerequisites
- You have a dbt Cloud account.
- Set up a [connection with your Git provider](/docs/cloud/git/git-configuration-in-dbt-cloud). This integration lets dbt Cloud run jobs on your behalf for job triggering. 

> - For the [Concurrent CI checks](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration#concurrent-ci-checks) and [Smart cancellation of stale builds](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration#smart-cancellation) features:

Reviewer: these features are actually available to non-native integrations too (as long as all the requirements from the API trigger section of this doc are met)! the only features they don't get are auto-dropping temporary schemas & posting statuses back to the git provider

Author: wow! support for non-native git unlocked quite a bit! i had a much older understanding of how CI worked in my head 😅 

i get it now! the **Trigger by pull requests** option in the UI enables auto-drop of temp schemas and git statuses. it's not The Option for "enabling CI" anymore

thank you!

Reviewer: yes, exactly!

   - Your dbt Cloud account must be on the [Team or Enterprise plan](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/).

>    - You are using one of these native Git integrations with dbt Cloud: [GitHub](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github), [GitLab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops). If you have a GitLab integration, you need a paid or self-hosted account which includes support for GitLab webhooks and [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html). With GitLab Free, merge requests will invoke CI jobs but CI status updates (success or failure of the job) will not be reported back to GitLab. 

Author: ```suggestion
   - You must be using one of these native Git integrations with dbt Cloud: [GitHub](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github), [GitLab](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops). If you have a GitLab integration, you need a paid or self-hosted account which includes support for GitLab webhooks and [project access tokens](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.html). With GitLab Free, merge requests will invoke CI jobs but CI status updates (success or failure of the job) will not be reported back to GitLab. 
```

> 1. Set up a CI job with the [Create Job](/dbt-cloud/api-v2#/operations/Create%20Job) API endpoint using `"job_type": ci` or from the [dbt Cloud UI](#set-up-ci-jobs).

Reviewer 3: I would add a note about turning the trigger to run on PRs off (or is it automatically toggled off for non-native integration setups?

Author: thanks for flagging, @kbrock91 !

yep, it's automatically turned off for non-native Git integrations and includes a helper message too: 

![image](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/107218380/cf93d2e8-201b-44c4-af33-b87612d2a319)

1. Call the [Trigger Job Run](/dbt-cloud/api-v2#/operations/Trigger%20Job%20Run) API endpoint to trigger the CI job. You must include both of these fields to the payload:
   - Provide the pull request (PR) ID using one of these fields:

      - `github_pull_request_id`
      - `gitlab_merge_request_id`
      - `azure_devops_pull_request_id`

>       - `non_native_pull_request_id` (for example, BitBucket)

Author: i saw that https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-cloud/pull/8960 was closed so thought the change didn't get merged. but, i recently ran across this field when i was searching around the dbt-cloud repo for something else. happy to remove if it's not supposed to be here, just lemme know

Reviewer: nice catch! it was introduced [here](https://github.com/dbt-labs/dbt-cloud/pull/8996) so we should keep it
